Amazon EC2 provides the following features:

Virtual computing environments, known as instances
Preconfigured templates for your instances, known as Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), that package the bits you need for your server (including the operating system and additional software)
Various configurations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity for your instances, known as instance types
Secure login information for your instances using key pairs (AWS stores the public key, and you store the private key in a secure place)
Storage volumes for temporary data that's deleted when you stop or terminate your instance, known as instance store volumes
Persistent storage volumes for your data using Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS), known as Amazon EBS volumes
Multiple physical locations for your resources, such as instances and Amazon EBS volumes, known as regions and Availability Zones
A firewall that enables you to specify the protocols, ports, and source IP ranges that can reach your instances using security groups
Static IP addresses for dynamic cloud computing, known as Elastic IP addresses
Metadata, known as tags, that you can create and assign to your Amazon EC2 resources
Virtual networks you can create that are logically isolated from the rest of the AWS cloud, and that you can optionally connect to your own network, known as virtual private clouds (VPCs)
For more information about the features of Amazon EC2, see the Amazon EC2 product page.

For more information about running your website on AWS, see Websites & Website Hosting.

How to Get Started with Amazon EC2

The first thing you need to do is get set up to use Amazon EC2. After you are set up, you are ready to complete the Getting Started tutorial for Amazon EC2. Whenever you need more information about a feature of Amazon EC2, you can read the technical documentation.

Get Up and Running

Setting Up with Amazon EC2
Getting Started with Amazon EC2 Linux Instances
Basics

Instances and AMIs
Regions and Availability Zones
Instance Types
Tags
Networking and Security

Amazon EC2 Key Pairs
Security Groups
Elastic IP Addresses
Amazon EC2 and Amazon VPC
Storage

Amazon EBS
Instance Store
Working with Linux Instances

Tutorial: Installing a LAMP Web Server on Amazon Linux
Tutorial: Configure Apache Web Server on Amazon Linux to use SSL/TLS
Getting Started with AWS: Hosting a Web App for Linux
If you have questions about whether AWS is right for you, contact AWS Sales. If you have technical questions about Amazon EC2, use the Amazon EC2 forum.

Related Services

You can provision Amazon EC2 resources, such as instances and volumes, directly using Amazon EC2. You can also provision Amazon EC2 resources using other services in AWS. For more information, see the following documentation:

Auto Scaling User Guide
AWS CloudFormation User Guide
AWS Elastic Beanstalk Developer Guide
AWS OpsWorks User Guide
To automatically distribute incoming application traffic across multiple instances, use Elastic Load Balancing. For more information, see Elastic Load Balancing Developer Guide.

To monitor basic statistics for your instances and Amazon EBS volumes, use Amazon CloudWatch. For more information, see the Amazon CloudWatch Developer Guide.

To monitor the calls made to the Amazon EC2 API for your account, including calls made by the AWS Management Console, command line tools, and other services, use AWS CloudTrail. For more information, see the AWS CloudTrail User Guide.

To get a managed relational database in the cloud, use Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) to launch a database instance. Although you can set up a database on an EC2 instance, Amazon RDS offers the advantage of handling your database management tasks, such as patching the software, backing up, and storing the backups. For more information, see Amazon Relational Database Service Developer Guide.

Accessing Amazon EC2

Amazon EC2 provides a web-based user interface, the Amazon EC2 console. If you've signed up for an AWS account, you can access the Amazon EC2 console by signing into the AWS Management Console and selecting EC2 from the console home page.

If you prefer to use a command line interface, you have several options:

AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)
Provides commands for a broad set of AWS products, and is supported on Windows, Mac, and Linux. To get started, see AWS Command Line Interface User Guide. For more information about the commands for Amazon EC2, see ec2 in the AWS Command Line Interface Reference.

Amazon EC2 Command Line Interface (CLI) Tools
Provides commands for Amazon EC2, Amazon EBS, and Amazon VPC, and is supported on Windows, Mac, and Linux. To get started, see Setting Up the Amazon EC2 Command Line Interface Tools on Linux and Commands (CLI Tools) in the Amazon EC2 Command Line Reference.

AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell
Provides commands for a broad set of AWS products for those who script in the PowerShell environment. To get started, see the AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell User Guide. For more information about the cmdlets for Amazon EC2, see the AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell Reference.

Amazon EC2 provides a Query API. These requests are HTTP or HTTPS requests that use the HTTP verbs GET or POST and a Query parameter named Action. For more information about the API actions for Amazon EC2, see Actions in the Amazon EC2 API Reference.

If you prefer to build applications using language-specific APIs instead of submitting a request over HTTP or HTTPS, AWS provides libraries, sample code, tutorials, and other resources for software developers. These libraries provide basic functions that automate tasks such as cryptographically signing your requests, retrying requests, and handling error responses, making it is easier for you to get started. For more information, see AWS SDKs and Tools.

Pricing for Amazon EC2

When you sign up for AWS, you can get started with Amazon EC2 for free using the AWS Free Tier.

Amazon EC2 provides the following purchasing options for instances:

On-Demand instances
Pay for the instances that you use by the hour, with no long-term commitments or up-front payments.

Reserved Instances
Make a low, one-time, up-front payment for an instance, reserve it for a one- or three-year term, and pay a significantly lower hourly rate for these instances.

Spot instances
Specify the maximum hourly price that you are willing to pay to run a particular instance type. The Spot price fluctuates based on supply and demand, but you never pay more than the maximum price you specified. If the Spot price moves higher than your maximum price, Amazon EC2 shuts down your Spot instances.

For a complete list of charges and specific prices for Amazon EC2, see Amazon EC2 Pricing.

To calculate the cost of a sample provisioned environment, see AWS Economics Center.

To see your bill, go to your AWS Account Activity page. Your bill contains links to usage reports that provide details about your bill. To learn more about AWS account billing, see AWS Account Billing.

If you have questions concerning AWS billing, accounts, and events, contact AWS Support.

For an overview of Trusted Advisor, a service that helps you optimize the costs, security, and performance of your AWS environment, see AWS Trusted Advisor.

PCI DSS Compliance

Amazon EC2 supports the processing, storage, and transmission of credit card data by a merchant or service provider, and has been validated as being compliant with Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS). For more information about PCI DSS, including how to request a copy of the AWS PCI Compliance Package, see PCI DSS Level 1.

Document ConventionsNext »

